>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, OCTOBER 15: WITH
DONALD TRUMP UNDER FIRE, IS THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY FRACTURING
THREE WEEKS BEFORE ELECTION DAY?
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
GENERAL MOTORS AND OTHER CAR
MAKERS RACE TO DELIVER A LONG-
RANGE ELECTRIC CAR THAT SELLS
AS WELL AS TESLA'S.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING,
AND THANKS FOR JOINING US.
WITH THREE WEEKS AND THREE DAYS
TO GO TO ELECTION DAY, DONALD
TRUMP IS CAMPAIGNING AGAIN IN
THE BATTLEGROUND STATE WHERE HE
WON HIS FIRST REPUBLICAN
PRIMARY, NEW HAMPSHIRE.
TODAY AT HIS RALLY, TRUMP CALLED
HIS DEMOCRATIC OPPONENT UNWORTHY
OF THE WHITE HOUSE.
TRUMP CONTINUED TO DENY
ALLEGATIONS BY NUMEROUS WOMEN
THAT HE HARASSED THEM OR
GROPED AND KISSED THEM WITHOUT
CONSENT.
THIS MORNING, ON TWITTER, TRUMP
CALLED THEIR STORIES "100%
FABRICATED AND MADE-UP CHARGES
PUSHED STRONGLY BY THE MEDIA AND
THE CLINTON CAMPAIGN."
HE ALSO REPEATED THE
UNSUBSTANTIATED CLAIM THAT "THIS
ELECTION IS BEING RIGGED."
IN RESPONSE, A CLINTON CAMPAIGN
MANAGER SAID IN A WRITTEN
STATEMENT TODAY: "PARTICIPATION
IN THE SYSTEM, AND PARTICULARLY
VOTING, SHOULD BE ENCOURAGED,
NOT DISMISSED OR UNDERMINED
BECAUSE A CANDIDATE IS AFRAID
HE'S GOING TO LOSE.
THIS ELECTION WILL HAVE RECORD
TURNOUT BECAUSE VOTERS SEE
THROUGH DONALD TRUMP'S SHAMEFUL
ATTEMPTS TO UNDERMINE AN
ELECTION WEEKS BEFORE IT
HAPPENS."
AFTER A WEST COAST CAMPAIGN
SWING, CLINTON HAS NO PUBLIC
EVENTS PLANNED BEFORE NEXT
WEDNESDAY'S FINAL DEBATE WITH
TRUMP IN LAS VEGAS.
MEANWHILE, TODAY, WIKILEAKS
PUBLISHED TRANSCRIPTS OF AT
LEAST THREE OF HER PAID TALKS IN
2013 WITH THE INVESTMENT FIRM
GOLDMAN SACHS, HACKED FROM THE
EMAIL ACCOUNT OF HER CAMPAIGN
CHAIRMAN, JOHN PODESTA.
A SAUDI ARABIA-LED AND U.S.-
SUPPORTED MILITARY COALITION IS
APOLOGIZING FOR BOMBING A
FUNERAL IN YEMEN LAST WEEK, AN
ATTACK THAT KILLED 140 PEOPLE
AND WOUNDED 600 MORE.
IN A WRITTEN STATEMENT PUBLISHED
TODAY, THE COALITION'S JOINT
INCIDENTS ASSESSMENT TEAM SAID
IT "WRONGLY TARGETED" THE
LOCATION BECAUSE OF "INCORRECT
INFORMATION."
THE STATEMENT WENT ON TO SAY:
"THE COALITION COMMAND EXPRESSES
ITS REGRET AT THIS UNINTENTIONAL
INCIDENT AND THE ENSUING PAIN
FOR VICTIMS' FAMILIES."
THE FUNERAL HALL HAD BEEN FILLED
WITH LEADERS AND SUPPORTERS OF
THE SHIITE REBELS, WHO THE
SAUDI-LED COALITION HAS TARGETED
SINCE LAST YEAR IN SUPPORT OF
YEMEN'S INTERNATIONALLY
RECOGNIZED GOVERNMENT.
THREE MEN IN KANSAS FACE
ARRAIGNMENT ON MONDAY MORNING
FOR ALLEGEDLY PLOTTING TO BOMB
AN APARTMENT COMPLEX THAT'S HOME
TO 120 PEOPLE, INCLUDING MANY
MUSLIM IMMIGRANTS FROM SOMALIA.
FEDERAL PROSECUTORS SAY THE TRIO
ARRESTED YESTERDAY BELONG TO A
MILITIA GROUP THAT CALLS ITSELF
THE CRUSADERS.
THEY ALLEGEDLY STOCKPILED
WEAPONS AND PLANNED TO DETONATE
CAR BOMBS OUTSIDE THE COMPLEX IN
GARDEN CITY, 200 MILES WEST OF
WICHITA, THE DAY AFTER ELECTION
DAY.
ONE APARTMENT WAS USED AS A
MOSQUE.
THE F.B.I. INVESTIGATED THE
MEN FOR EIGHT MONTHS.
IF CONVICTED, THEY COULD FACE
LIFE IN FEDERAL PRISON.
RESIDENTS OF PORTLAND, OREGON,
TODAY BRACED FOR MORE STRONG
WINDS AND RAIN, BUT NOTHING AS
BAD AS THE TORNADO THAT STRUCK
THE BEACH TOWN OF MANZANITA
90 MILES WEST OF PORTLAND
YESTERDAY, TOPPLING TREES AND
DAMAGING TWO DOZEN HOMES.
THERE WERE NO REPORTS OF
INJURIES.
UP THE PACIFIC COAST, IN
SEATTLE, THE NATIONAL WEATHER
SERVICE FORECAST STORMS WITH
WIND GUSTS UP TO 70 MILES AN
HOUR TODAY.
IN NORTH CAROLINA, FLOOD WATERS
FROM RIVERS SWOLLEN BY HURRICANE
MATTHEW LAST WEEKEND ARE
RECEDING.
RESCUE WORKERS TODAY DISCOVERED
TWO MORE FATALITIES IN A
SUBMERGED VEHICLE.
A TOTAL OF 26 DEATHS IN NORTH
CAROLINA ARE BLAMED ON THE
STORM.
>> Sreenivasan: THE "WASHINGTON
POST" RELEASED A 2005 VIDEO OF
DONALD TRUMP SPEAKING IN VULGAR
TERMS THAT DISPARAGED WOMEN LAST
WEEK.
THEN CAME A SERIES OF
ACCUSATIONS BY WOMEN ACCUSING
TRUMP OF SEXUAL IMPROPRIETIES.
THIS IS COSTING TRUMP SUPPORT IN
HIS OWN PARTY.
ACCORDING TO A "U.S.A. TODAY"
SURVEY, ABOUT 25% OF THE
REPUBLICANS SERVING AS
GOVERNORS, U.S. SENATORS AND
MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES NOW SAY THEY
DO NOT SUPPORT TRUMP.
AND ACCORDING TO A "TIME
MAGAZINE" TALLY, AMONG FEMALE
REPUBLICANS IN OFFICE, AROUND
35% DO NOT SUPPORT HIM.
TO DISCUSS THE GAP WITHIN THE
G.O.P., I AM JOINED FROM
WASHINGTON BY JONATHAN SWAN, A
NATIONAL POLITICAL REPORTER WITH
"THE HILL."
SO HOW SIGNIFICANT IS THIS RIFT?
>> IT'S ABOUT AS SIGNIFICANT AS
IT CAN-- AS IMAGINABLE.
I MEAN, PARTICULARLY IN THE LAST
FEW WEEKS, WHEN DONALD TRUMP AND
HIS COHORT MADE A STRATEGIC
DECISION TO NO LONGER MIGRATE
TOWARDS THE CENTER.
I MEAN, THERE WAS SORT OF A
PERIOD THERE WHERE HE WAS AT
LEAST INDICATING THAT HE WAS
TRYING TO REACH OUT TO SOME OF
THOSE UNDECIDED VOTERS.
NOW THERE SEEMS TO BE A STRATEGY
TO REALLY JUST DOUBLE DOWN ON
THE MOST INCENDIARY RHETORIC
POSSIBLE.
SO YOU ALREADY HAD A WHOLE LOT
OF REPUBLICANS WHO WERE DEEPLY
UNCOMFORTABLE ABOUT SUPPORTING
TRUMP BUT WANTED TO SUPPORT HIM,
AND HE'S MAKING IT VERY, VERY
EASY FOR THEM NOW TO SAY, "NO,
WE DON'T WANT TO BE A PART OF
THIS," AND WHAT IT'S DOING,
REALLY, IS SEVERING THROUGH WHAT
WAS A VERY THIN THREAD
CONNECTING THE PAUL RYAN WING OF
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY TO THE
DONALD TRUMP WING OF THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT WHAT
HAPPENS TO ALL THE PEOPLE THAT
SUPPORT TRUMP THAT NO LONGER
SEE, PERHAPS, THE G.O.P. AS
THEIR HOME?
>> WELL, THIS IS A CONVERSATION
THAT'S NOW HAPPENING WITH
INCREASING INTENSITY ALL AROUND
WASHINGTON.
I MEAN, THIS WEEK, I HAD
CONVERSATIONS WITH PEOPLE CLOSE
TO PAUL RYAN.
I HAD CONVERSATIONS WITH PEOPLE
WHO WERE WORKING FOR DONALD
TRUMP.
AND BOTH CAMPS ARE SAYING NOW
OPENLY THAT THERE MAY NEED TO BE
A THIRD PARTY.
I MEAN, HOW DO YOU RECONCILE THE
DONALD TRUMP UNIVERSE, WHICH IS
THE VIEW OF DONALD TRUMP AND HIS
CAMPAIGN C.E.O. STEVE BANON, IS
THAT PAUL RYAN, THE REPUBLICAN
SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE, IS PART OF
A CONSPIRACY WITH FOLKS LIKE
GEORGE SOROS AND PAUL SINGER TO
BRING ABOUT ONE-WORLD
GOVERNMENT, TO DESTROY
AMERICA THROUGH OPEN BORDERS?
THAT'S LITERALLY THEIR
WORLDVIEW.
STEVE BANON HAS SAID TO HIS
COLLEAGUES AT BREITBART THAT
PAUL RYAN IS THE ENEMY.
HOW DO YOU RECONCILE THAT WITH
PAUL RYAN AND WITH THE ELITE
WING OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY
THAT BELIEVES IN ALL OF THESE
ORTHODOXIES THAT THEY'VE
SUPPORTED FOR THE PAST 20 YEARS?
I DON'T SEE HOW THOSE TWO THINGS
JOIN UP.
>> Sreenivasan: RYAN'S TASK
DOESN'T GET ANY EASIER AFTER
ELECTION DAY.
>> IT GETS HARDER.
HE'S GOING TO HAVE A REELECTION
FOR SPEAKER.
HE'S PROBABLY GOING TO HAVE A
SLIMMER MAJORITY.
I DON'T BELIEVE THAT THE HOUSE
IS GOING TO FLIP, BUT THEY MAY
LOSE SOME SEATS.
THERE ARE QUITE A FEW VULNERABLE
MEMBERS.
PAUL RYAN IS GOING TO FACE A
MORE HOSTILE CAUCUS.
HE IS GOING TO HAVE A MONTH OF
NUCLEAR WARFARE FROM THE PERSON
WHO HAS POSSESSION OF THE
BIGGEST MEGAPHONE IN THE PARTY.
DONALD TRUMP HAS BEEN SAVAGING
PAUL RYAN.
HE'S BEEN SUGGESTING THAT
THERE'S SOMETHING SINISTER GOING
ON, THAT PAUL RYAN IS
MASTERMINDING SOME KIND OF A
PLOT TO UNDERMINE HIM.
SO THAT HAS RESONANCE WITH THE
REPUBLICAN BASE.
I CAN TELL YOU, A LOT OF FOLKS
CLOSE TO PAUL RYAN ARE REALLY
WORRIED ABOUT THE EFFECT, THE
TOXIC EFFECT THAT TRUMP'S
RHETORIC IS HAVING AMONG THE
REPUBLICAN BASE AND THE WAY THAT
THEY VIEW PAUL RYAN.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
SOMETHING TO KEEP AN EYE ON.
JONATHAN SWAN FROM "THE HILL,"
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
>> A PLEASURE.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE'S ANOTHER
NEW INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT TO
COMBAT CLIMATE CHANGE.
TODAY, AT A SUMMIT IN RWANDA,
140 NATIONS AGREED TO FREEZE AND
THEN PHASE DOWN THEIR USE OF
HYDROFLUOROCARBONS, CHEMICALS
USED IN AIR CONDITIONING AND
REFRIGERATORS THAT ALSO WARM THE
EARTH'S ATMOSPHERE.
THIS DEAL FOLLOWS LAST WEEK'S
FORMAL ADOPTION OF THE PARIS
CLIMATE ACCORDS THAT REQUIRE
MEMBERS OF THE UNITED NATIONS TO
LIMIT EMISSIONS OF PLANET-
WARMING GASES LIKE CARBON
DIOXIDE.
A QUARTER OF THE GREENHOUSE
GASES EMITTED FROM THE UNITED
STATES COME FROM
TRANSPORTATION-- CARS, TRUCKS
AND PLANES-- WHICH IS ONE REASON
SOMETHING HAPPENING IN THE U.S.
AUTO INDUSTRY MAY HAVE
INCREASING SIGNIFICANCE, A SHIFT
AWAY FROM CARS POWERED BY
BURNING FOSSIL FUELS TOWARD CARS
POWERED BY ELECTRIC BATTERIES.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT JOHN LARSON
REPORTS, TEN YEARS AGO, A
DOCUMENTARY ASKED, "WHO KILLED
THE ELECTRIC CAR?"
BUT TODAY, IT MIGHT BE MORE
APPROPRIATE TO ASK, "WHO SAVED
IT?"
>> WELCOME TO THE STAGE, MR.
ELON MUSK!
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
>> Reporter: WHEN TESLA MOTORS'
C.E.O. ELON MUSK ANNOUNCED IN
MARCH THAT HIS COMPANY WOULD
BUILD A NEW ALL-ELECTRIC CAR FOR
THE MASSES, MANY BELIEVED IT
MIGHT BE A TURNING POINT TOWARDS
A HOLY GRAIL OF SORTS, A
COMBINATION OF COST AND RANGE
THAT MIGHT SOMEHOW ATTRACT THE
MASS MARKET OF AMERICAN CAR
BUYERS AND REWRITE THE MORE THAN
CENTURY-OLD STORY OF GASOLINE
POWERED CARS.
>> WE HAVE AN AMAZING PRODUCT TO
SHOW YOU TONIGHT.
I THINK YOU'RE GOING TO BE BLOWN
AWAY.
>> Reporter: IN ITS FIRST TEN
YEARS, TESLA MOTORS HAD GONE
FROM A SILICON VALLEY STARTUP TO
A SMALL BUT CRITICALLY-ACCLAIMED
MAKER OF EXPENSIVE BATTERY-
POWERED CARS.
ITS MODEL S, ROLLED OUT IN 2012,
COST $60,000 TO $120,000 AND
COULD GO WELL OVER 200 MILES ON
A CHARGE AT A TIME WHEN MOST
ELECTRIC CARS COULDN'T EVEN GO
100.
AS WE CAN ATTEST, THE MODEL S IS
ONE OF THE FASTEST-ACCELERATING
CARS ON THE MARKET, POWERING
FROM ZERO TO 60 IN UNDER THREE
SECONDS.
>> SO, DO YOU WANT TO SEE THE
CAR?
>> YES!
>> Reporter: MUSK SAYS HIS NEW
SEDAN, THE MODEL 3, WILL COST
$35,000, BUT LESS THAN $30,000
WITH FEDERAL REBATES, AND IT
WILL HAVE A DRIVING RANGE OF AT
LEAST 200 MILES ON A SINGLE
CHARGE.
>> SO, WHAT DO YOU THINK?
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
>> Reporter: WITHIN A WEEK, MORE
THAN 300,000 PEOPLE ORDERED THE
CAR, PLACING $1,000 REFUNDABLE
DEPOSITS.
THE FACTORY TO BUILD THE CAR
WASN'T EVEN BUILT YET, AND THE
CAR WOULD NOT BE AVAILABLE TO
MOST WHO ORDERED IT FOR TWO OR
EVEN THREE YEARS.
BUT THE PRE-ORDERS REPRESENTED
$14 BILLION IN SALES, MAKING IT
THE MOST LUCRATIVE ROLLOUT OF
ANY COMMERCIAL PRODUCT OF ANY
KIND IN HISTORY.
>> I MEAN, YOU HAVE TO
UNDERSTAND, YOU'VE GOT CAR
COMPANIES THAT HAVE BEEN AROUND
FOR A CENTURY-- FORD, GENERAL
MOTORS, MERCEDES-BENZ, THE
WORLD'S OLDEST-- AND THEY'VE
NEVER SEEN ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
>> Reporter: "CAR AND DRIVER"
MAGAZINE EXECUTIVE EDITOR AARON
ROBINSON SAYS THE PUBLIC'S
REACTION TO TESLA'S ANNOUNCEMENT
STUNNED BOARDROOMS AROUND THE
WORLD.
>> YOU HAD THIS CASE IN GERMANY.
THERE WAS A SHAREHOLDER MEETING
AT MERCEDES-BENZ WHERE PEOPLE
WERE DEMANDING OF THE BOARD,
"WHY... HOW COME TESLA'S GOT ALL
OF THIS ATTENTION AND WE'VE
NEVER HAD ANYTHING LIKE THIS?
WE'RE FALLING BEHIND."
>> Reporter: TWO WEEKS AGO,
MERCEDES-BENZ INTRODUCED A NEW
ELECTRIC CAR LINE AT THE PARIS
AUTO SHOW.
SO DID A DOZEN CAR
MANUFACTURERS, INCLUDING
AMERICA'S G.M. AND FORD, WHICH
NOW HAVE NEW ELECTRIC CARS IN
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT.
ELECTRIC CARS HAVE A LONG WAY TO
GO.
OF MORE THAN 89 MILLION VEHICLES
PROJECTED TO BE SOLD WORLDWIDE
THIS YEAR, LESS THAN 1% ARE
PROJECTED TO BE ELECTRIC.
IN THE U.S., TESLA'S MODEL S IS
PROJECTED THE TOP-SELLING
ELECTRIC CAR THIS YEAR, FOLLOWED
BY THE CHEVY VOLT, TESLA'S MODEL
X, THE FORD FUSION ENERGI AND
THE NISSAN LEAF.
ELECTRIC CAR SALES ARE GROWING
RAPIDLY, UP ALMOST 40% IN THE
U.S. THIS YEAR AND 70% GLOBALLY.
>> TESLA MADE ELECTRIC CARS
COOL.
TESLA MADE THEM DRIVEWAY JEWELRY
FOR THE WEALTHY.
ONCE YOU'RE DRIVEWAY JEWELRY FOR
THE WEALTHY, YOU'RE THEN DESIRED
BY EVERYBODY ELSE.
>> Reporter: IN AN EFFORT TO
TAKE ELECTRIC CARS MAINSTREAM,
FOR THE PAST YEAR, TESLA HAS
BEEN BUILDING THE WORLD'S
LARGEST ELECTRIC BATTERY FACTORY
IN NEVADA, CALLED THE
"GIGAFACTORY," TO HELP LOWER
BATTERY COSTS.
IT HAS ALREADY BUILT THOUSANDS
OF CHARGING STATIONS THAT ARE
FREE TO ALL OF ITS CAR OWNERS
WORLDWIDE.
TESLA'S HEAD START FOR AN
AFFORDABLE ELECTRIC CAR FOR THE
MIDDLE CLASS HAS STRONG
COMPETITION FROM DETROIT.
>> LADIES AND GENTLEMAN, MEET
THE 2017 CHEVROLET BOLT EV!
>> Reporter: G.M. C.E.O. MARY
BARRA HAS ANNOUNCED CHEVROLET
WILL DELIVER AN ALL-ELECTRIC
VEHICLE, THE BOLT, WITH A RANGE
OF 238 MILES FULLY-CHARGED FOR
ABOUT THE SAME PRICE AS TESLA'S
MODEL 3.
>> AND NOW, FOR THE REAL KICKER:
THIS ISN'T SOME SCIENCE PROJECT
OR A CONCEPT THAT'S YEARS AWAY.
THE BOLT EV WILL BE IN
PRODUCTION THIS YEAR.
>> Reporter: THE ONCE-VIEWED-AS-
STODGY GENERAL MOTORS FROM
DETROIT MAY BEAT THE SILICON
VALLEY DARLING TO MARKET BY MORE
THAN A YEAR.
JOSH TAVEL IS CHEVROLET'S CHIEF
ENGINEER FOR THE BOLT EV.
>> AND WE TALKED ABOUT THE HOLY
GRAIL, RIGHT?
WHEN YOU HIT THAT 200-MILE MARK,
THAT'S WHEN THE MASSES START
CONSIDERING, "YEAH, MAYBE THIS
CAR COULD BE FOR ME."
>> Reporter: G.M. IS ALREADY
PRODUCING THE CARS AT ITS
ASSEMBLY PLANT IN ORION,
MICHIGAN.
UNLIKE TESLA, G.M. HAS MASSIVE
PRODUCTION CAPABILITY IN PLACE.
CUSTOMERS WON'T HAVE TO WAIT.
G.M. INVITED NEWSHOUR WEEKEND TO
BE THE FIRST NATIONAL NEWS
BROADCAST TO GET A TEST DRIVE.
SO, YOU'RE BETTING PEOPLE WHEN
THEY DRIVE THIS THING ARE GOING
TO REALLY LIKE IT, THEY JUST
DON'T KNOW IT YET?
>> THE BEST THING WE CAN DO IS
JUST HAVE CUSTOMERS COME DRIVE
THE CAR, DRIVE THE CAR FOR
FIVE...FOR TWO MINUTES.
GET IN THE CAR, DRIVE THE CAR.
>> Reporter: THE ONE THING I'LL
TELL THE CAMERA THAT'S NOT A
SALES PITCH IS, IT'S DIFFERENT.
THERE'S NO QUESTION ABOUT IT.
IT FEELS DIFFERENT, IT SOUNDS
DIFFERENT, IT DRIVES DIFFERENT.
DIFFERENT, MEANING THE CAR IS
UNUSUALLY QUIET.
THERE'S NO GASOLINE ENGINE
RUNNING.
AND IT'S SURPRISINGLY FAST,
ACCELERATING FROM ZERO TO 60 IN
6.5 SECONDS.
THE COST OF CHARGING ANY
ELECTRIC CAR VARIES WIDELY
DEPENDING ON THE SOURCE OF
ELECTRICITY.
ON AVERAGE, IT COSTS A DRIVER
ABOUT THREE CENTS A MILE.
BUT CHARGING AN ELECTRIC CAR ON
THE ROAD IS NOT THAT SIMPLE.
A TESLA PLUG WILL NOT FIT A
NISSAN LEAF, AND THE QUICK
CHARGE PLUG FOR THE LEAF WILL
NOT FIT THE CHEVY BOLT OR THE
ELECTRIC VEHICLES FROM
VOLKSWAGEN OR B.M.W.
>> CHARGING IS A LITTLE BIT LIKE
THE WILD WEST RIGHT NOW.
YOU HAVE DIFFERENT KINDS OF
CHARGE ADAPTERS.
I MEAN, THIS ALL SCARES THE
NORMAL CAR DRIVER BECAUSE WHEN
YOU PULL INTO A GAS STATION,
IT'S NOT LIKE THERE'S DIFFERENT
PUMP SHAPES AND EVERYTHING.
YOU JUST STICK THE PUMP IN,
STUFF GOES IN, AND THEN YOU GO.
>> Reporter: FEW DRIVERS KNOW
MORE ABOUT THE CHARGING HURDLES
THAN SAN DIEGO RESIDENT TONY
WILLIAMS, A RETIRED AIRLINE
PILOT WHO SELLS ADAPTERS FOR
ELECTRIC CAR CHARGERS AND
CONSULTS FOR THE INDUSTRY.
IN 2012, HE ORGANIZED AN
ELECTRIC CAR RALLY, DRIVING FROM
MEXICO TO CANADA.
>> AND I THOUGHT, WELL, I'LL
JUST BE THE FIRST GUY TO DRIVE
FROM MEXICO TO CANADA, AND THE
FIRST GUY TO CROSS OREGON AND
WASHINGTON ON THIS BRAND NEW
WEST COAST ELECTRIC HIGHWAY.
>> Reporter: WITH THE RANGE ON
HIS CAR AT THE TIME ONLY 80
MILES AND LIMITED CHARGING
POINTS, IT TOOK HIM SIX DAYS
JUST TO GET OUT OF CALIFORNIA.
THEN, LAST YEAR, WILLIAMS DROVE
HIS TESLA MODEL S CROSS COUNTRY
USING TESLA'S FREE CHARGING
NETWORK THE WHOLE WAY.
>> AND THEN I RETURNED TO THE
NORTH THROUGH CLEVELAND, CHICAGO
AND THROUGH MONTANA, AND THEN
BACK TO WASHINGTON STATE, AND
THEN ALL THE WAY 1,100 MILES
BACK TO HERE.
>> Reporter: HIS TOTAL COST FOR
DRIVING 7,500 MILES?
JUST A FEW BUCKS FOR USING A
CHARGER OUTSIDE THE TESLA
NETWORK.
>> YEAH, IT WAS $10 ROUND TRIP,
PLUS HOTELS AND SANDWICHES.
>> Reporter: CALIFORNIA, PUSHING
ZERO EMISSION VEHICLES, HAS MORE
THAN 10,000 PUBLIC CHARGING
STATIONS.
THE STATE HAS SPENT $51 MILLION
PUTTING IN THOUSANDS OF CHARGING
CONNECTIONS AND WILL SPEND
$21 MILLION WITHIN THE NEXT YEAR
AND A HALF.
PUBLIC UTILITIES, LIKE SAN DIEGO
GAS AND ELECTRIC, SEEING A
REVENUE GROWTH OPPORTUNITY, ARE
PLANNING THOUSANDS OF CHARGING
STATIONS AT WORKPLACE LOCATIONS
AND APARTMENT BUILDINGS.
ACROSS MUCH OF THE COUNTRY,
DOZENS OF QUICK CHARGER STATIONS
HAVE SPROUTED UP, MAINLY IN BIG
CITIES.
THIS, FOR EXAMPLE, IS CHICAGO.
ATLANTA.
NEW YORK.
BUT AWAY FROM THE BIG CITIES,
LIKE TUSCALOOSA, ALABAMA?
GOOD LUCK.
IN THE RACE TO MAKE AN
AFFORDABLE, LONG-RANGE ELECTRIC
CAR, TESLA-- WHICH DECLINED TO
BE INTERVIEWED FOR THIS STORY--
HAS BEEN ISSUING STOCK AND
BURNING THROUGH CASH, SPENDING
BILLIONS TRYING TO BRING ITS
MODEL 3 TO MARKET.
>> THEY'VE MADE A HUGE
IMPRESSION ON THE INDUSTRY, BUT
THEY'VE ALSO STUCK THEIR NECK ON
THE CHOPPING BLOCK.
IF YOU'RE VOLKSWAGEN OR YOU'RE
TOYOTA, YOU'RE THE WORLD'S
LARGEST CAR COMPANIES, YOU GET
TO MAKE MISTAKES.
IF YOU'RE TESLA, LITTLE TESLA,
YOU DON'T NECESSARILY GET TO
MAKE A BIG MISTAKE.
IT'S NOT GUARANTEED THAT THESE
GUYS ARE GOING TO MAKE IT TO THE
START OF PRODUCTION FOR MODEL 3.
MY OWN PERSONAL FEELING IS THAT
THEY'RE JUST KIND OF BARELY
HOLDING THIS THING TOGETHER.
>> Reporter: AND ELECTRIC
VEHICLE INCENTIVES, $7,500 IN
TAX DEDUCTIONS PER CAR FROM THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT, ARE
SCHEDULED TO PHASE OUT.
A LOT OF PEOPLE SAY, WELL, YOU
KNOW, THESE CARS COULDN'T EXIST
ON THEIR OWN UNLESS THERE WERE
INCENTIVES.
WHAT ARE YOUR THOUGHTS?
>> SO, I THINK THEY'RE RIGHT UP
UNTIL THIS POINT, RIGHT?
I THINK THERE NEEDED TO BE THAT
PUSH BECAUSE THEY DIDN'T EXIST
FOR THESE VEHICLES TO START
EXISTING.
BUT I THINK THESE CARS AREN'T
GOING TO CONTINUE BECAUSE THE
GOVERNMENT IS PUTTING MONEY ON
THE HOOD IN INCENTIVES.
I THINK CUSTOMERS ARE GOING TO
VALUE WHAT ELECTRIFICATION CAN
BRING.
>> Reporter: SO FAR, G.M. HAS NO
PLANS TO HELP BUILD QUICK
CHARGING NETWORKS ACROSS THE
COUNTRY AS OTHER CAR COMPANIES
HAVE.
TONY WILLIAMS BELIEVES IT MIGHT
BE 20 YEARS BEFORE ELECTRIC CAR
CHARGING STATIONS ARE AS
MAINSTREAM AS GASOLINE STATIONS.
>> EMISSION REQUIREMENTS AREN'T
GOING AWAY.
THEY MAY WISH THEY WOULD OR THEY
WOULD HOPE THEY COULD PAY
LOBBYISTS TO MAKE THEM GO AWAY
OR COMPLAIN A LOT, BUT THEY'RE
NOT.
AND GLOBAL WARMING I DON'T
BELIEVE IS GOING TO GO AWAY,
EITHER.
SO, THE COMBINATION OF THE TWO
EVENTS, WITH CONTINUED, CONSTANT
AND INCREASING POLITICAL
PRESSURE, IS THE ONLY THING THAT
IS GOING TO MAKE MANUFACTURERS
ADOPT ELECTRIC DRIVE IN THAT TEN
TO 20-YEAR PERIOD, AND I DO
BELIEVE THAT WILL HAPPEN.
>> Reporter: "CAR AND DRIVER'S"
AARON ROBINSON, WHO LOVES
GASOLINE CARS, ALSO OWNS AN
OLDER MODEL ELECTRIC CAR WITH A
RANGE OF 60 MILES.
>> BUT MOST PEOPLE DON'T DRIVE
200 MILES EVERY DAY.
THEY DRIVE 20, 30, MAYBE 40
MILES A DAY.
AND ALL OF THE ELECTRIC CARS,
INCLUDING THE ONE WE'RE
CURRENTLY IN, WILL FIT THOSE
NEEDS.
>> Sreenivasan: AS CLIMATE
CHANGE FORCES POLAR BEARS ONTO
LAND, NATIVE ALASKANS ARE USING
SPECIALIZED CONTAINERS TO
PROTECT THEIR FOOD.
VISIT OUR WEB SITE AT
www.pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: A JOINT
INVESTIGATION BY THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS AND "U.S.A. TODAY NETWORK"
HAS FOUND IN THE FIRST SIX
MONTHS OF THIS YEAR, GUN
ACCIDENTS KILLED AT LEAST ONE
CHILD IN THE UNITED STATES EVERY
OTHER DAY.
THE REPORT PUBLISHED YESTERDAY
ANALYZED MORE THAN 1,000 DEATHS
AND INJURIES FROM ACCIDENTAL
SHOOTINGS INVOLVING CHILDREN
AGES 17 AND YOUNGER BETWEEN
JANUARY 2014 AND THIS JUNE.
JOINING ME NOW TO TALK ABOUT
THIS IS ONE OF THE REPORTERS OF
THAT STORY, RYAN FOLEY, A MEMBER
OF A.P.'S NATIONAL REPORTING
TEAM FOCUSED ON STATE GOVERNMENT
COVERAGE.
HE IS IN IOWA TODAY.
FIRST OF ALL, WHAT'S THE PURPOSE
OF THE INVESTIGATION?
WHAT PROMPTED IT IN THE FIRST
PLACE?
>> SO, WE WANTED TO TAKE A MORE
COMPREHENSIVE LOOK AT THESE
SHOOTINGS, WHY THEY WERE
HAPPENING, WHO THE VICTIMS WERE,
WHAT TYPES OF GUNS WERE BEING
USED.
AND WE ALSO KNEW THAT THERE
WASN'T A LOT OF GOVERNMENT
RESEARCH INTO THESE QUESTIONS.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW DO WE KEEP
TRACK OF THEM TODAY AND WHAT DID
YOUR INVESTIGATION LOOK AT?
>> WE STARTED WITH DATA FROM THE
GUN VIOLENCE ARCHIVE WHICH IS A
NATIONAL GROUP THAT TRIES TO
TRACK EVERY SINGLE GUN INCIDENT
IN THE UNITED STATES.
SO WE TOOK THEIR DATA GOING BACK
TO 2014 AND LOOKED AT MORE THAN
1,000 CASES INVOLVING MINORS WHO
WERE INVOLVED IN THESE
UNINTENTIONAL SHOOTINGS.
>> Sreenivasan: AREN'T THERE
STATISTICS FROM LAW ENFORCEMENT
OR THROUGH THE GOVERNMENT?
>> THE ONLY GOVERNMENT DATA
THAT'S AVAILABLE COMES FROM THE
C.D.C., AND WE FOUND THAT, THAT
DATA IS VERY INCOMPLETE.
FOR 2014, THEY ONLY LISTED 74
UNINTENTIONAL FIREARMS DEATHS
INVOLVING MINORS.
WE ACTUALLY FOUND OVER 110.
AND THE C.D.C. ADMITS THAT IT IS
UNDERCOUNTING THESE BECAUSE MANY
LOCAL CORONERS CLASSIFY THESE
SHOOTINGS AS HOMICIDES RATHER
THAN UNINTENTIONAL OR
ACCIDENTAL.
>> Sreenivasan: IT LOOKS LIKE
DIFFERENT POPULATIONS UNDER 17
HAVE HIGHER RATES.
WHY DO KIDS THREE AND UNDER HAVE
SUCH A HIGH RATE?
WHAT'S THE SIMILARITY WITH
TEENAGERS?
>> THERE'S A LARGE SPIKE IN THE
NUMBER OF THESE SHOOTINGS
INVOLVING THREE- AND
FOUR-YEAR-OLDS.
IN MANY CASES THEY'RE ABLE TO
ACCESS THEIR PARENTS' UNSECURED
LOADED GUNS.
AND THEY OFTEN POINTED THEM BACK
AT THEIR OWN FACES, WE FOUND,
AND SHOT THEMSELVES BY ACCIDENT.
THEN, THE DATA SHOWS THERE'S
ANOTHER LARGE SPIKE FOR CHILDREN
AGES 15 THROUGH 17, AND THOSE
USUALLY INVOLVE GROUPS OF
TEENAGERS WHO MANAGE TO OBTAIN A
GUN AND IT ACCIDENTALLY GOES OFF
AND KILLS A SIBLING OR A FRIEND.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT EFFORTS
HAVE BEEN MADE ON EITHER A
NATIONAL OR STATE LEVEL TO TRY
TO PREVENT THESE GUN DEATHS?
>> ON THE NATIONAL LEVEL RIGHT
NOW, THERE'S REALLY NOT A LOT
GOING ON.
CONGRESS SEVERELY LIMITED THE
FUNDING THAT'S AVAILABLE BACK IN
THE 1990s TO THE C.D.C.
MANY FORMER C.D.C. OFFICIALS
WILL TELL YOU THAT THAT'S BEEN A
MAJOR SETBACK.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT ABOUT
SAFER GUN STORAGE?
>> THERE'S CERTAINLY A PUSH ON
THE LOCAL AND STATE LEVEL TO
ENCOURAGE SAFE GUN STORAGE, AND
THAT'S A KEY FINDING HERE.
BUT GUN SAFETY ADVOCATES WILL
ARGUE THAT A LOT MORE DOES NEED
TO BE DONE, FIRST OF ALL, TO
EVEN STUDY HOW BIG OF A PROBLEM
IT IS.
THE GOVERNMENT USED TO DO AN
ANNUAL SURVEY WHERE THEY ASKED
AMERICANS HOW THEY STORED THEIR
GUNS.
THE C.D.C. STOPPED ASKING THAT
QUESTION IN 2004 ON A NATIONWIDE
LEVEL, AND JUST THIS YEAR, THE
STATE OFFICIALS WHO RUN THAT
SURVEY DECIDED NOT TO
REINTRODUCE THOSE QUESTIONS.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
RYAN FOLEY OF THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS JOINING US FROM IOWA
TODAY.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: SECRETARY OF
STATE JOHN KERRY TODAY OPENED A
NEW ROUND OF TALKS IN
SWITZERLAND TO END THE WAR IN
SYRIA.
KERRY WAS JOINED BY ENVOYS FROM
HALF A DOZEN MIDDLE EAST NATIONS
AND THE FOREIGN MINISTER OF
RUSSIA, WHICH INTERVENED
MILITARILY A YEAR AGO TO BACK
SYRIAN PRESIDENT BASHAR ASSAD.
SINCE A CEASE-FIRE BROKERED BY
THE U.S. AND RUSSIA COLLAPSED A
MONTH AGO, ASSAD'S AIR STRIKES,
BACKED BY RUSSIAN WARPLANES,
HAVE BEEN UNRELENTING IN REBEL-
HELD AREAS OF THE CITY OF
ALEPPO.
I.T.N.'S DAN RIVERS HAS MORE.
>> Reporter: A SHATTERING
BOMBARDMENT RAINED DOWN INTO
REBEL-HELD PARTS OF THE CITY.
HERE THERE IS NO PEACE, NO
WEEKEND, NO ESCAPE.
WE HAVE BEEN GIVEN PERMISSION TO
ENTER THE GOVERNMENT-CONTROLLED
WESTERN HALF OF THE CITY, THE
JOURNEY THAT INVOLVES DRIVING
THE LENGTH OF THIS WAR-RAVAGED
COUNTRY.
THIS ROAD IS VITAL.
IT'S SECURED BY A MIXTURE OF
IRANIAN AND HEZBOLLAH FORCES,
FIGHTERS WHO, WITH RUSSIAN AIR
POWER, HAS HELPED TURN THE TIDE
OF THIS CONFLICT.
DRIVING INTO WHAT WAS ONCE ONE
OF THE MIDDLE EAST'S GREAT
COSMOPOLITAN CITIES IS SHOCKING.
ALEPPO USED TO LAY CLAIM TO
BEING THE OLDEST CONTINUOUSLY
INHABITED CITY IN THE WORLD.
TODAY, IT IS THE MOST DANGEROUS.
THE FRONT LINE IS JUST A FEW
BLOCKS AWAY.
THERE IS DEATH AND TRAGEDY ON
BOTH SIDES OF THIS CITY, THIS
THE AFTERMATH OF A REBEL ATTACK
ON A SCHOOL.
A MORTAR LANDED JUST AS CHILDREN
WERE ARRIVING.
TEN PEOPLES WERE INJURED.
BUT WITHOUT DOUBT, IT IS THE
REBEL-HELD AREAS THAT ARE TAKING
THE GREATEST POUNDING.
WE WATCHED THE SICKENING
SHELLING THAT HAS BECOME A
NORMALITY HERE, SOMETHING
PRESIDENT ASSAD INSISTED WAS
ESSENTIAL.
>> YOU HAVE TO CLEAN.
YOU HAVE TO KEEP CLEANING THIS
AREA AND PUSH THE TERRORISTS TO
TURKEY, TO GO BACK TO WHERE THEY
COME FROM, OR TO KILL THEM.
>> Reporter: VICTORY, IF IT
EVER COMES, WILL SURELY HAVE
COME AT FAR TOO HIGH A PRICE.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY,
THERE'S WORD FROM THOSE
DIPLOMATIC TALKS IN LAUSANNE,
SWITZERLAND, THAT SHIITE REBELS
IN YEMEN HAVE FREED TWO
AMERICANS HELD CAPTIVE IN THAT
COUNTRY.
THE AMERICANS SHOWN HERE WERE
FLOWN TO THE NEIGHBORING PERSIAN
GULF NATION OF OMAN, ACCORDING
TO SECRETARY OF STATE KERRY, WHO
DID NOT NAME THE FORMER
PRISONERS.
THE STATE DEPARTMENT CALLED THE
RELEASE A HUMANITARIAN GESTURE
AND CALLED FOR THE RELEASE OF
THE FEW OTHER AMERICANS THOUGHT
TO BE DETAINED IN YEMEN.
THE FREED AMERICANS JOIN SOME OF
THE WOUNDED FROM LAST WEEK'S
FUNERAL HALL BOMBING, FLYING TO
OMAN FOR BETTER MEDICAL CARE.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
"PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.